Prevnext: 

----

Title: Some more stuff

----

Description: 

Small things have big consequences. Over time, those consequences compound. We are the accumulated momentum of all our choices. Some of those choices are binary. Go to the gym or not: that choice in that moment is going to change your day. Over time that choice will change your life. We tend to ignore the importance of fractional benefit because we lose sight of the concept of the tipping point- the little benefit that tips the cup releases a flood of many benefits. It may be a 2 percent difference in force or momentum that flips the coin from heads to tails, or yes to no. — Aubrey Marcus

There’s no area of your life that’s separate from the others. Your health will impact your work. Your work will impact your relationships. Your relationships will impact your happiness. Your happiness will impact your performance. It’s an interconnected system. And if one of the systems is out whack, the others are inevitably impacted by it. The investment with highest ROI is the one you make in yourself, and the way you get that ROI is by making the following five essential investments.

#1. PHYSICAL HEALTH

At the beginning of this year, I had the misfortune of getting the flu. And if you were one of the unfortunate people who experienced this, you know it was one of the worst years ever. I was incapacitated for almost the entire month of January and was spending entire days in bed. My productivity plummeted. I had to cancel interviews for The Unmistakable Creative and didn’t get very much writing done. It made me realize just how much we take our health for granted. Your health is the engine for the rest of your life. If your health is out whack, nothing else really works. Investing in your health produces an ROI in every other area of your life. That’s why I placed it first on the list.

How exactly do you invest in your health? It’s not as complicated as it might sound. It comes down to three basic pillars: sleep, diet, and exercise.

##Sleep

The impact of sleep became apparent to me at the beginning of 2015, when I was at a major low point in my life. Sleep deprivation is one of the biggest aggravators of depression. And I was stuck in a vicious cycle. I was depressed because I couldn’t sleep and I couldn’t sleep because I was depressed. I knew that I had not only change the way I slept but make it a priority. Thanks Arianna Huffington’s book The Sleep Revolution I made some changes that led to big improvements.

A Casper Mattress: I was fortunate enough to get a Casper mattress because the company sponsored multiple episodes of the Unmistakable Creative. After a couple of months of sleeping on it, I started noticing a difference anytime I didn’t sleep in my bed. Whether it was a hotel, a friend’s place or a night at my parent’s house where I have a bedroom, the quality of my sleep was always much better when I slept on the Casper. A good mattress is probably the most worthwhile investment you can make in the quality of your sleep.

A reduction of Screen Time: Sometime last year, I found myself going on lots of dates with people I met on dating apps. During that time a lot of my good habits went to hell. I’d be checking to see if someone responded to my messages, sometimes while I was in bed. This didn’t do much for my sleep. Study after study has shown that one of the things that’s most disruptive to our sleep is the blue light emitted from smartphones, laptops, and tablets. And still, people are scrolling through Instagram, swiping right, and checking Facebook, often until right before they fall asleep. When I don’t check my phone 2 hours before bed, I always wake up the next day with a much better focus. When I do check my phone, the mornings are less productive.